docs/metric-fetching-functions.md, before:

# Metric Fetching Functions

The purpose of writing this documentation is to show the logic behind used Linux commands. Many of these metrics can be obtained in several ways. The methods used in this application have been selected based on several criteria:

- Availability from the level of a "clean" system based on GNU Linux,
- No need to wait for results to be calculated, e.g., we prefer to read metrics from the files,
- Instead of reading different information from 5 different places, we prefer to find a place from which we will be able to download most of these metrics and then possibly supplement them.

---

## System Metrics

### Interrupt and Context Switch Rates

```bash
vmstat
```

As far as we know, the output of the `vmstat` command has fixed places in which the metric data is entered (i.e. there is no shift if a given metric at some point takes 1,2,3 places more than before). For this reason, we could specify fixed places from which we read the interrupt rate and context switch rate.

### Number of All and Running Processes

```bash
cat /proc/loadavg | cut -d ' ' -f 4
```

From the file /proc/loadavg we only get the number of all processes and processes that are currently running. This number is separated by a slash (`/`).

### Number of Blocked Processes

```bash
ps -eo state | grep -c '^D'
```

Blocked processes are not available using previous methods so we had to use another command to get this number. This is a possibility of improvement in the future.

---

## Processor Metrics

### Number of Processors

```bash
cat /proc/cpuinfo | grep 'processor' -c
```

Getting the number of processors that were reported to the /proc/cpuinfo. We can base our algorithm on that and read specific information about each processor.

### User, Nice, System, Idle, [...] Times

```bash
cat /proc/stat
```

This file gives us a lot of information about all of the processors. We are only interested in the first line of the output which provides sum of information from all processors reported to the /proc/cpuinfo.

All of the times are measured in `USER_HZ` which is typically 1/100 of a second.

### L2 and L3 Cache Hit and Miss Rates

```bash
[TODO]
```

### Cycles Rates and Relative Frequencies

```bash
[TODO]
```

---

## Input / Ouput Metrics

### Data read and written, Read and Write Operations Rates

```bash
sudo awk '{ print $2 }' /proc/1/io
```

Basically this command outputs second column of the /proc/1/io file. The "1" in the filepath is the process ID (should be changed to the specific ID of application running on cluster). 

The first and second rows are respectively all characters read and written by the specified process divided by 1024 to get this number in MB. Right now this command doesn't count write and read "operations rate". It just outputs the number of read and write operations for this specific process ID.

### Read, Write, Flush operations and Flush time

```bash
iostat -d -k | awk '/^[^ ]/ {device=$1} $1 ~ /sda/ {print 1000*$10/($4*$3), 1000*$11/($4*$3), $6/$4, $7/$6}'
```

This command will first run `iostat -d -k` to get the disk statistics, then use `awk` to parse the output. The awk script looks for lines that start with a non-space character (which indicates the start of a new device's statistics) and saves the device name to the device variable. It then looks for lines that contain the string sda (which can be replaced with any other device name as needed) and calculates the read and write times by dividing the 10th and 11th fields (which represent the total number of KB read/written) by the product of the 4th and 3rd fields (which represent the total number of operations and the block size, respectively). This gives the throughput rate in KB/s, which is then multiplied by 1000 and divided by the number of operations to convert to milliseconds per operation.

Later I added flush_rate (the rate of flush operations, in operations per second) and flush_time (the mean time per flush operation, in milliseconds). The flush_rate is calculated as the 6th field (which is the number of flush operations) divided by the 4th field (the total number of operations). The flush_time is calculated as the 7th field (which is the total time spent on flush operations) divided by the 6th field.

---

## Memory Metrics

### Active, Inactive, Cached, and Used Memory and Swap

```bash
grep -v -e 'anon' -e 'file' /proc/meminfo | grep -E '^(Cached|SwapCached|SwapTotal|SwapFree|Active|Inactive)' | awk '{print $2}'
```

All of the information we can get from the /proc/meminfo file. All of the metrics are saved in kB but, for the sake of the output, we are dividing it by 1024 to have MB.

### Page In, Out, Fault, and Free Rates

```bash
sar -r -B 1 1 | awk 'NR==4{print $3 $4 $5 $7}'
```

This command uses the `-r` and `-B` options to collect memory page and paging statistics, and then selects the relevant fields using `awk`. All of the statistics for pages are measured in pages/second.

### Memory Read, Write, and I/O Rates

```bash
sar -b 1 1 | awk 'NR==4{print $6/1024 $7/1024 ($6+$7)/1024}'
```

This command selects the fourth line of the `sar -b` output, which contains the memory read and write rates in kilobytes per second. The awk command then divides these rates by 1024 to convert them to megabytes per second, and prints the results with descriptive labels. Finally, it calculates the total memory I/O rate by summing the memory read and write rates, and also converts the result to MB/s.

Note that the output of this command may vary depending on your Linux distribution and version, so you may need to adjust the awk commands accordingly to extract the desired metrics.

---

## Network Metrics

### Receive and Send Packet Rates

```bash
ifstat 1 1 | tail -1 | awk '{ print $1, $2 }'
```

Unfortunately, I haven't been able to find a place from which I could download information about the current receive and send packet rate that would not require a 1 second delay from me to measure it.

Both metrics are measured in KB/s.

### Sent and Received Data

```bash
cat /proc/net/dev | awk '/^ *eth0:/ {rx=$3; tx=$11; print rx,tx; exit}'
```

The file /proc/net/dev keeps track of all received and sent packets and bytes. Right now we are outputting number of packets but it's possible to change the command and output number of bytes.

---

## Power Metrics

### Memory Power

```bash
sudo powerstat -d 1 | awk '/Memory Power/ { print $4 }'
```

Unfortunately, it's not possible to obtain accurate power consumption information for memory without measuring it over a period of time. It's possible that `print $4` won't work. They ou can go back to the basic command with `printf`: `sudo powerstat -d 1 | awk '/Memory Power/ {printf("Memory Power: %.2f W\n", $4)}'`, but be careful because there is too many parenthases to parse it using string (you can try to add together two strings and then use it in `exec()` function).

### Using RAPL

```bash
[TODO]
```

### Using NVML

```bash
[TODO]
```

---

Commit message:

Updated docs with list of files/tools/commands

docs/metric-fetching-functions.md, after:

# Metric Fetching Functions

The purpose of writing this documentation is to show the logic behind used Linux commands. Many of these metrics can be obtained in several ways. The methods used in this application have been selected based on several criteria:

- Availability from the level of a "clean" system based on GNU Linux,
- No need to wait for results to be calculated, e.g., we prefer to read metrics from the files,
- Instead of reading different information from 5 different places, we prefer to find a place from which we will be able to download most of these metrics and then possibly supplement them.

---

## List of paths and tools

Below is a list of paths from which we fetched data:

- `/proc/loadavg`
- `/proc/cpuinfo`
- `/proc/stat`
- `/proc/<PROCESS-ID>/io`
- `/proc/meminfo`
- `/proc/net/dev`

And list of tools/commands:

- date
- vmstat
- ps
- iostat
- sar
- ifstat
- *sudo* powerstat
- cut, grep, cat, *sudo* awk, tail

---

## System Metrics

### Interrupt and Context Switch Rates

```bash
vmstat
```

As far as we know, the output of the `vmstat` command has fixed places in which the metric data is entered (i.e. there is no shift if a given metric at some point takes 1,2,3 places more than before). For this reason, we could specify fixed places from which we read the interrupt rate and context switch rate.

### Number of All and Running Processes

```bash
cat /proc/loadavg | cut -d ' ' -f 4
```

From the file /proc/loadavg we only get the number of all processes and processes that are currently running. This number is separated by a slash (`/`).

### Number of Blocked Processes

```bash
ps -eo state | grep -c '^D'
```

Blocked processes are not available using previous methods so we had to use another command to get this number. This is a possibility of improvement in the future.

---

## Processor Metrics

### Number of Processors

```bash
cat /proc/cpuinfo | grep 'processor' -c
```

Getting the number of processors that were reported to the /proc/cpuinfo. We can base our algorithm on that and read specific information about each processor.

### User, Nice, System, Idle, [...] Times

```bash
cat /proc/stat
```

This file gives us a lot of information about all of the processors. We are only interested in the first line of the output which provides sum of information from all processors reported to the /proc/cpuinfo.

All of the times are measured in `USER_HZ` which is typically 1/100 of a second.

### L2 and L3 Cache Hit and Miss Rates

```bash
[TODO]
```

### Cycles Rates and Relative Frequencies

```bash
[TODO]
```

---

## Input / Ouput Metrics

### Data read and written, Read and Write Operations Rates

```bash
sudo awk '{ print $2 }' /proc/1/io
```

Basically this command outputs second column of the /proc/1/io file. The "1" in the filepath is the process ID (should be changed to the specific ID of application running on cluster). 

The first and second rows are respectively all characters read and written by the specified process divided by 1024 to get this number in MB. Right now this command doesn't count write and read "operations rate". It just outputs the number of read and write operations for this specific process ID.

### Read, Write, Flush operations and Flush time

```bash
iostat -d -k | awk '/^[^ ]/ {device=$1} $1 ~ /sda/ {print 1000*$10/($4*$3), 1000*$11/($4*$3), $6/$4, $7/$6}'
```

This command will first run `iostat -d -k` to get the disk statistics, then use `awk` to parse the output. The awk script looks for lines that start with a non-space character (which indicates the start of a new device's statistics) and saves the device name to the device variable. It then looks for lines that contain the string sda (which can be replaced with any other device name as needed) and calculates the read and write times by dividing the 10th and 11th fields (which represent the total number of KB read/written) by the product of the 4th and 3rd fields (which represent the total number of operations and the block size, respectively). This gives the throughput rate in KB/s, which is then multiplied by 1000 and divided by the number of operations to convert to milliseconds per operation.

Later I added flush_rate (the rate of flush operations, in operations per second) and flush_time (the mean time per flush operation, in milliseconds). The flush_rate is calculated as the 6th field (which is the number of flush operations) divided by the 4th field (the total number of operations). The flush_time is calculated as the 7th field (which is the total time spent on flush operations) divided by the 6th field.

---

## Memory Metrics

### Active, Inactive, Cached, and Used Memory and Swap

```bash
grep -v -e 'anon' -e 'file' /proc/meminfo | grep -E '^(Cached|SwapCached|SwapTotal|SwapFree|Active|Inactive)' | awk '{print $2}'
```

All of the information we can get from the /proc/meminfo file. All of the metrics are saved in kB but, for the sake of the output, we are dividing it by 1024 to have MB.

### Page In, Out, Fault, and Free Rates

```bash
sar -r -B 1 1 | awk 'NR==4{print $3 $4 $5 $7}'
```

This command uses the `-r` and `-B` options to collect memory page and paging statistics, and then selects the relevant fields using `awk`. All of the statistics for pages are measured in pages/second.

### Memory Read, Write, and I/O Rates

```bash
sar -b 1 1 | awk 'NR==4{print $6/1024 $7/1024 ($6+$7)/1024}'
```

This command selects the fourth line of the `sar -b` output, which contains the memory read and write rates in kilobytes per second. The awk command then divides these rates by 1024 to convert them to megabytes per second, and prints the results with descriptive labels. Finally, it calculates the total memory I/O rate by summing the memory read and write rates, and also converts the result to MB/s.

Note that the output of this command may vary depending on your Linux distribution and version, so you may need to adjust the awk commands accordingly to extract the desired metrics.

---

## Network Metrics

### Receive and Send Packet Rates

```bash
ifstat 1 1 | tail -1 | awk '{ print $1, $2 }'
```

Unfortunately, I haven't been able to find a place from which I could download information about the current receive and send packet rate that would not require a 1 second delay from me to measure it.

Both metrics are measured in KB/s.

### Sent and Received Data

```bash
cat /proc/net/dev | awk '/^ *eth0:/ {rx=$3; tx=$11; print rx,tx; exit}'
```

The file /proc/net/dev keeps track of all received and sent packets and bytes. Right now we are outputting number of packets but it's possible to change the command and output number of bytes.

---

## Power Metrics

### Memory Power

```bash
sudo powerstat -d 1 | awk '/Memory Power/ { print $4 }'
```

Unfortunately, it's not possible to obtain accurate power consumption information for memory without measuring it over a period of time. It's possible that `print $4` won't work. They ou can go back to the basic command with `printf`: `sudo powerstat -d 1 | awk '/Memory Power/ {printf("Memory Power: %.2f W\n", $4)}'`, but be careful because there is too many parenthases to parse it using string (you can try to add together two strings and then use it in `exec()` function).

### Using RAPL

```bash
[TODO]
```

### Using NVML

```bash
[TODO]
```

---
